	
The Discounted Cash Flow (DCF) valuation for Vicinity Centres (AXS: VCX) was based on a combination of a perpetuity growth model and an EBITDA exit multiple approach in cross checking and validating valuation results. Under the perpetuity method, the valuation assumes a modest terminal growth rate of 2.5% to reflect the long-term stabilisation of retail property income in mature low growth environments. Concurrently, the EBITDA exit multiple method applies a conservative terminal multiple to the projected EBITDA in the final forecast year, based on peer derived multiples ensuring market aligned calibration. Both valuation methods produced consistent outputs, with the implied equity value and share price estimates showing minimal dispersion with 2.43 (Perpetuity) and 2.48 (EBITDA Exit) respectively, indicating minimal dispersion and reinforcing robustness of valuation assumptions. 

An assumed 7% WACC reflects the relatively defensive nature of VCX's assets, supported by strong balance sheet metrics and resilient cash flows. Given VCX position as a leading retail REIT in Australia, the DCF valuation incorporates assumptions for moderate earnings growth, stable occupancy rates, and disciplined capital management over the forecast horizon. Recent portfolio repositioning driving outcomes supports this thesis, with VCX reallocating  ~1.7 billion of capital into premium assets since EOFY FY22, yielding the strong growth contributor acquisitions of Chadstone and Chatwood Chase. Speciality productivity for premium commercial assets standing at $15,971 was a 23% increase YoY, indicative of  stronger rents and tenant quality.

Looking ahead, VCX remains well positioned to capture incremental through strategic concentration  in high end retail. Focalising high end malls is eliciting better income, tenants and rent growth, with a further $520 million CAPEX commitment to expand premium retail sites (Jones, 2025). This commitment across key premium assets sites reinforces a floward earnings trajectory, tenant diversification strategy and thus defensible intrinsic valuations.