Australia’s current economic landscape presents diverse conditions for the REITS sector entering  FY2025. The International Monetary Fund (IMF) has downgraded Australia’s GDP growth forecast for 2025 to 1.6% from 2.1%, citing global trade tensions and domestic economic challenge such as inflationary pressures and a broader slowdown across developed economies. Inflation is expected to rise from 2.0% to 2.5%, potentially impacting consumer spending patterns and, by extension impacting discretionary exposed retail REIT performance, while  simultaneously reinforcing the strategic positioning of prime retail assets (Jackson, 2025).

Despite these macro headwinds, the RBA has maintained the official cash rate at a steady 4.53% post increasing it by 25 basis points in Q1 FY24, creating a stable monetary environment that supports long-term financing and investment strategies for REITs conducive to long term fundibng, refinancing and capital investments strategies. While international central banks, such as the European Central Bank have shifted to easing, advanced economies are still navigating through the tail end of pandemic-induced inflationary pressures with Australia's economic conditions remaining more accommodative, benefitting  debt laden sectors such as retail real estate (LDB, 2025).

Australia narrowly avoided a technical recession in 2024, with GDP growth of just 1.5%, significantly below the historical average of 3.35%. Headline annualised inflation eased substantially from a peak in 7.8% in Q4 FY2022 to 3.1%. This moderation in inflation has provided a degree of consumer relief, however, the cost-of-living crisis, specifically the housing crisis, continues to persist, with house rents rising to 11.1% and units rents by 8.6% year-on-year presenting ongoing pressures on housing affordability (Feng, 2024).  

However, these conditions incited legislative and investment shifts, including the strive for Build-to-Rent (BtR) projects and selective asset reallocations strategies in REIT portfolios. Various A-REITS have taken advantage of the stable environment to restructure, refinance, or issue capital, positioning themselves ahead through raising capital ahead of expected monetary easing in the coming financial year. 

Looking forward, a combination of easing inflation and stable interest rates are expected to support household disposable income and discretionary spending across FY2025 – directly benefitting Vicinity Centres’ lifestyle and fashion tenants reinforcing the core portfolio philosophy. Tourism recovery is expected to provide a second industry tailwind, specifically for leading destinations like Chadstone and CBD centre. Low unemployment and improving wage growth create a cautiously optimistic macroeconomic backdrop for retail REITs, further augmenting foot traffic and specifically retailer sales performance.
