The Australian Real Estate Investment Trust (A-REIT) sector demonstrated resilience in FY2024, with the A-REIT Index outperforming in the S&P/ASX200 Index by 12.1%, yielding a total return of 19.9% (BDO Australia, 2024). Despite office and diversified sectors underperforming, strong performance was driven by significant returns in various A-REIT sectors, dovish interest rate expectations, robust tenant demand and strategic repositioning across key assets classes particularly in the retail and industrial property space.

Specifically, retail REITS have experienced strong recovery, with Q1 FY2024 tenant sales reaching $6.5B and portfolio occupancy nearing full capacity. Scentre Group, a major player in the sector, forecasts Funds From Operations (FFO) growth of up to 5.4% in 2024 and a distribution increase of at least 3.6% (Bristow, 2024), highlighting the sectors operational robustness.

At an industry-wide level, revenue has grown at a compound annual rate (CAGR) of 0.9% over the past five years and is projected to reach $20.9 in 2025. REITs continue to attract investor interest, supported by superannuation fund allocations and a shift towards alternative asset classes, paired  with strong income visibility and inflation hedging characteristics appealing to institutional  investor return profiles. The industrial sector has grown its revenue share due to rising demand and upwards rent pressure,  alongside capital appreciation driving robust demand for Australian property as an asset class. 

Looking forwards, the REIT sector is well-positioned to benefit from improving macroeconomic conditions, population growth, and elevated business confidence, which are expected to support rent hikes. Retail REITs, in particular, are buoyed by strategic asset repositioning and sustained tenant demand, reinforcing the sector’s outlook for continued expansion through elevated household savings and government fiscal support (Reilly, 2025). 

Overall, the retail REIT sector is benefitting from strategic asset repositioning, strong leasing outcomes, demand, and investor confidence with conducive capital market conditions, positioning it for continued growth. Retail focussed REITs such as VCX are poised to capitaliser on these conditions, reinforcing their market position as a defensive cash generative investment, with a diversified real asset portfolio.